Ewing sarcoma, as its name suggests, is a form of a periatics sarcoma that develops in the bone and sorrounding soft tissue.  Ewing sarcoma, in a majority of cases, is initiated by chromasomal translocation of between chromosomes 11 and 22, t(11,22), resulting in the fusion of the Ewing Sarcoma Breakpoint Region 1 (EWSR1) and he Friend Leukemia Virus Integration 1 (FLI1) gene, resulting chimeric protein drives tumor promotion (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ewing_sarcoma).   
	There are quite a few NGS data on GEO site, a majority of which belong to the human in vitro study.  Apparently, there is a significant hurdle to develop a preclinical mouse model simply because a EWS-FLI1 fusion protein is often lethal  (Methods Mol Biol. 2021:2226:183-189.  doi: 10.1007/978-1-0716-1020-6_14), and probably the biopsy samples, enough to do the NGS may be tough to get.  Nonetheless, there are more than dozen publications that performed NGS from biopsies and I came across one of the recent study with scRNAseq data posted in GEO which is Visser LL, Bleijs M, Margaritis T, van de Wetering M et al. Ewing Sarcoma Single-cell Transcriptome Analysis Reveals Functionally Impaired Antigen-presenting Cells. Cancer Res Commun 2023 Oct 24;3(10):2158-2169. PMID: 37823774.  GEO accession # is GSE243347.  
	As its title suggests, this study looks at the 18 Ewing sarcoma samples from 11 patients.  I am sure the biopsy samples were minuscule and would be pain staking to generate single cell suspension.  Considering this, it was not too surprising the fact that they used CEL-Seq2 instead of 10x V3 or other  library prep.  At the end of cell extraction and purification step, they did not have enough cells to run the 10X library prep methods, which require many more cells and are pricy.  Anyway, a following is the abstract; 

```
Novel therapeutic strategies are urgently needed for patients with high-risk Ewing sarcoma and for the reduction of severe side effects for all patients. Immunotherapy may fill this need, but its successful application has been hampered by a lack of knowledge on the composition and function of the Ewing sarcoma immune microenvironment. Here, we explore the immune microenvironment of Ewing sarcoma, by single-cell RNA sequencing of 18 Ewing sarcoma primary tissue samples. Ewing sarcoma is infiltrated by natural killer, T, and B cells, dendritic cells, and immunosuppressive macrophages. Ewing sarcoma–associated T cells show various degrees of dysfunction. The antigen-presenting cells found in Ewing sarcoma lack costimulatory gene expression, implying functional impairment. Interaction analysis reveals a clear role for Ewing sarcoma tumor cells in turning the Ewing sarcoma immune microenvironment into an immunosuppressive niche. These results provide novel insights into the functional state of immune cells in the Ewing sarcoma tumor microenvironment and suggest mechanisms by which Ewing sarcoma tumor cells interact with, and shape, the immune microenvironment.
``` 
